# GrazioSalvareDashboard

## How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

Writing code that is maintainable, readable, and adaptable requires you to structure the logic and syntax of your code in a manner that can be clearly understood and built upon by others. This means that you must properly comment the code so that anyone who is reading it in the future can see what each piece of it does and how it all functions together. Furthemore it is beneficial to keep each function and method separate and have it only do one thing at a time so it is clearly understandable and becomes modular, removing one piece does not effect anything else, and this means that anyone can update and adapt your code without much hassles. For example in this project each of the CRUD operations has their own function and only does that specific task. The advantage of this is that it becomes easier to improve upon your code if you ever need to, or if you are working with others they can easily see your thought process when reading your code and can update it without much hassle.

## How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

As a computer scientist it is best to first develop a high level overview of what needs to be done and then work to break down all the work needed to achieve that goal into smaller easier to manage pieces. By doing so you can set a goal for what needs to be accomplished in a certain time frame and can then achieve that goal in smaller steps that all coalesce into a greater while. The approach I took in this project reflects this approach since I first built out the CRUD side and tested that out and made sure every function worked individually and then I moved onto the dashboard where again I tested each functions and it's compatability with the CRUD script and then moved on to the next piece. By taking this atomic approach I was able to build a solid foundation upon which my dashboard could function and not be prone to errors. The two sided approach that I took in this project, first making sure the backend was able to properly query and update the database, and then using that as a foundation for the front end is something I will use in the future if I ever have to do a project that requires full stack development.

## What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists combine theory and practical programming to help build applications and software that is efficient and functional. This matters because having code that runs efficiently can help boost performance and reveneue greatly for a company and this can scale as a company gets larger. Working in this manner allows companies like Grazioso Salvare create softwares that can help save lives and reduces workloads greatly. With our software Grazioso Salvare can greatly reduce the time needed to sort through thousands of animals and this can increase productivity and help them quickly analyze massive amounts of data to find an animal that can help them in their rescue efforts.
